All right,
now that we have a solid understanding of what Cloud9 is at a high level,
let's get some hands‑on experience in using it in AWS.
To get it up and running,
we're going to create a Cloud9 environment in AWS so that we can run,
debug, and execute code in the cloud.
Then,
once our instance is up, I'm going to provide a quick
orientation of Cloud9 so that you're familiar with the IDE
environment and the tools it provides for you.
Let's get to it.
Once we log in with an AWS user to the AWS console,
we can navigate to the Cloud9 service offering.
Since this is our first time using Cloud9,
we will be provided with the description of the service and how to get started.
Since we already covered what Cloud9 is at a high level,
let's just go ahead and select the Create environment button to get started.
Every Cloud9 environment has a name that is used to
classify what the environment is used for.
For this demo,
I'm going to type HelloCloud9 and select Next to keep
going. On the Environment settings screen,
we can customize our environments to meet our needs.
However, I want to note that for most Cloud9 environments,
users typically just use the default environment settings.
The environment type section allows us to specify if we want to use
an EC2 or SSH connection for our Cloud9 instance.
Essentially, this is asking if we want to use AWS or host Cloud9 somewhere else.
You can provide an SSH connection to an external
instance and configure Cloud9 to run there.
However, for this course,
we're going to use Amazon's cloud infrastructure by leaving the
default value of running Cloud9 on an EC2 instance.
Next,
we can specify an instance type to provide
additional resources to the environment.
For this tutorial, we're going to use the t2.micro size instance, as
it meets all the requirements we will need and typically fits within
the AWS free tier to avoid charges.
AWS has the cost savings setting enabled by default,
which means that after a specified time period of inactivity,
AWS terminates your Cloud9 instance.
This is a great cost‑saving benefit because then you only pay
for Cloud9 while you're actually using it.
We're going to leave all of the other values as defaults on this screen,
which will automatically provision an IAM role for us
and use default works‑based settings.
Select next, and and then move forward.
Now we are ready to create our Cloud9 instance, and provided a
few reminders for Cloud9 best practices.
Our environment is ready to go,
so let's select Create environment to get it all started. We
are then taken to the Cloud9 user interface.
Typically,
it takes a few minutes for AWS to provision the EC2 instance
and install Cloud9 onto it, so let's take a second to wait
for our environment to spin up.
Perfect.
Now our environment is loaded and ready to go! Before we start writing code,
let's take a second to familiarize ourselves with the Cloud9 console. In the
middle of Cloud9, we have our Editor Window.
The editor window is a primary focused area of the IDE and
is where you can create and edit code.
The menu bar at the top of Cloud9 can be used for multiple commands,
such as creating new files,
updating Cloud9 configurations, and customizing the view of the IDE
to meet your needs. At the bottom of your screen,
you have a terminal and a Immediate window.
Cloud9 has a fully integrated terminal that allows you to execute
standard Linux terminal commands and use the AWS CLI.
The Immediate window tab can be used to run and test small
snippets of code within your environment during debugging
sessions. On the far left,
we have an Environments tab that contains a File Explorer for
all of the files within the Cloud9 instance.
As we create new files and our application grows, here we will have
additional files show up for easy navigation.
On the right‑hand side, we have our debugger windows.
These are currently collapsed since we aren't
running an active debugging session.
However,
while we're debugging, these tabs will expand and be able to provide
useful information to us about the active session.
Now that's a pretty good orientation on the primary features
and focus areas of the Cloud9 IDE dashboard,
But let me go ahead and review that one more time. In
the middle we have our Editor Window.
This is the primary focus of the IDE where we create and edit code.
On the right‑hand side, we have our debugger,
which will expand during debugging sessions and provide
information related to our running program.
And on the left,
we have our File Explorer. Down towards the bottom, we have
our terminal and Immediate window. And, of course,
on the top, we have our menu bar.
Since this is a new Cloud9 instance, our editor window has some quick links
and features that can be useful when setting up Cloud9 for the first time. We
have quick integration options for AWS Lambda and options to clone code bases
from GitHub. If we scroll down a bit,
we can find some visual preferences we can update for our Cloud9
instance to modify the aesthetics of our IDE.
Main themes, editor themes, and keyboard modes are just a
few of the options available for us to personalize our Cloud9 experience to meet our needs.